
							 "Telus"


Introduction: 

Telus is a national telecommunications company in Canada that provides a wide range of communications products and services including data, Internet protocol (IP), voice, entertainment, and video. The company is based in Burnaby, British Columbia. Telus utilizes CDMA 2000, IDEN, and HSPA+-based mobility phone networks.

Telus is a member of the British Columbia Technology Industry Association. Telus has C$9.653 billion revenue, C$2.066 billion operating income and C$1.128 billion net income with 36,600 employees.

In the 1999/2000 period Telus acquired through merger the high performing Clearnet Communications, a cellular company that was based in Scarborough (Toronto) Ontario, which gave it foothold in the highly competitive central Canadian market (Ontario, Quebec). The company had its origins in nearby Pickering and was by 1997 outperforming the other Toronto/Ontario based cellular companies through its easily accessible product (the actual phone sold in various stores) and its high tech marketing strategy of its time, that emphasized uncluttered simplicity and a bright future outlook through its nature and animals motifs.


History :

Telus Communications (Alberta) was created in 1990 by the government of Alberta as a holding company in order to facilitate the privatization of a crown corporation, the Alberta Government Telephones Commission (AGT). In 1995, it acquired Edmonton Telephones (Ed Tel) from the City of Edmonton making Telus the owner of all telephone service in the province. In 1996, Telus was introduced to the public as the consumer brand, replacing AGT and EdTel. In 1998, Telus (Alberta) and BCTel announced a proposed merger. In 1999, Telus Corporation was created by the merger of Telus (Alberta) and BCTel with the new entity retaining the Telus name. As a result of the merger Telus became Canada's second largest telcom with 22% of market share compared to Bell Canada's 42%.

Telus has an estimated 9000 employees in the Philippines where it is known as Telus International, Inc. (formerly Ambergris Solutions) as part of its global expansion. Its regional office is located in Pasig City, while satellite offices can be found in Taguig City and recently opened another branch in Cubao, Quezon City. The majority of the workforce employed in the Philippines are used for Canadian customer service calls and business process services. Other regional offices are situated in Gyeonggi-do, Korea and Vancouver, Canada. The main corporate office is headquartered in Singapore. Telus International expanded into the United States and in July 2009 opened a call center in Guatemala with 300 employees.

Telus signed an agreement with Nokia Siemens Networks and Huawei to create an overlay HSPA network that will run along side its existing CDMA network. The network launched on November 5, 2009. The network, jointly built by Bell and Telus, is the largest HSPA+ network in Canada, covering over 93% of the Canadian population. The HSPA+ network provides download speeds of up to 21 Mbit/s and roaming in over 200 countries. On August 3 2010 TELUS became the first wireless operator in North America to announce they were upgrading their HSPA+ network to HSPA+ Dual Cell technology which will double maximum download speeds of up to 42 Mbit/s.


Sponsorship and naming :

Since 2000, Telus and its team members have contributed more than $91 million to charitable and non-profit organizations and volunteered more than 1.7 million hours of service to local communities. The company sponsors a minor league baseball stadium in downtown Edmonton called Telus Field. Built in 1995, it was originally home to the now-defunct Edmonton Trappers of the Pacific Coast League and is used by the Edmonton Capitals of the independent Golden Baseball League. Telus sponsors Science World in Vancouver, the Calgary Science Centre, and the Odyssium in Edmonton; all three science museums were subsequently renamed as Telus World of Science. Telus funds the annual Kokanee Crankworx freeride mountain bike and World Ski & Snowboard festivals, both held in Whistler, British Columbia. 

Telus is the namesake tenant in several office buildings, including Tour Telus in Montreal and Telus Plaza in Edmonton.

