						Bell Canada

Introduction: 

Bell Canada, commonly shortened to "Bell", is a major Canadian telecommunications company. Including its subsidiaries such as Bell Aliant, Northwestel, Télébec, and NorthernTel, it is the incumbent local exchange carrier for telephone services in most of Canada east of Manitoba and in the northern territories, and a leading competitive local exchange carrier (CLEC) in the western provinces. In a majority of its service territory, Bell Canada's principal competition is Rogers Communications. Bell Canada currently services over 13 million phone lines. It is headquartered in Montreal, Quebec. The Bell CEo is the George Cope currently. Bell has about $17.698 billion CAD revenue and $1.811 billion CAD net income and about 54,434 employees.



Bell Canada is the main asset of BCE Inc. (TSX: BCE, NYSE: BCE), also known as Bell Canada Enterprises, a former conglomerate operating in a variety of businesses. BCE ranks number 224 on the Forbes Global 2000 list (2008 edition). In 2007, BCE accepted a purchase offer from a group led by the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, but in the wake of the 2008 economic crisis, the resulting corporate structure (including the debt load that would have been assumed) was deemed to not meet necessary solvency criteria, and the takeover was cancelled.[5] Bell announced in September 2010 a deal to reacquire full control of the CTV Television Network, expanding once again into creating content to be delivered via broadcast, cable, satellite, wireless, and the Internet.

Industry: Communications Services
Founded : 1880, by Charles Fleetford Sise
Headquarters : 	Montreal, Quebec, Canada
CEO : George Cope 
Revenue : $17.698 billion CAD (2008)[2] 
Employees : 54,434



History:

Bell Canada has been one of Canada's most important and most powerful companies, and in 1975 was listed as the fifth largest in the country.

Inception :

Alexander Graham Bell, who resided increasingly for most of his life in Nova Scotia, Canada, received 'the master patent' (U.S. Patent 174,465) for the telephone in the United States in 1876. Bell assigned 75% of the Canadian patent rights to his father, Melville Bell, who, with a friend, Reverend Thomas Henderson, leased pairs of wooden hand telephones for use on private lines constructed by the client from, for example, a store to a nearby warehouse, or from a business to an executive's residence. The two gave a licence to Hugh Cossart Baker, Jr. to lease telephones in Ontario.[8] In 1879 Melville Bell sold the rights to National Bell Telephone Company in Boston, Massachusetts, USA, and thus officially became one of the first regional operating companies of what was to become the Bell System. Charles Fleetford Sise, a Chicago businessman, was brought in as general manager, and The Bell Telephone Company of Canada Ltd. was founded in 1880.[9] With a government-granted monopoly on Canadian long-distance telephone service[citation needed], The Bell Telephone Company serviced 237,000 subscribers by 1914.

Since the early years of The Bell Telephone Company of Canada, Ltd., it was known colloquially as "The Bell" or "Bell Canada." On March 7, 1968, Canadian law renamed The Bell Telephone Company of Canada, Ltd., as Bell Canada.






